# Arken
The first thing Arken saw after awakening from his slumber were the faces of three goblins, each holding a shovel and with shocked expressions. After a few seconds of awkward silence, one of them said, "Arken?" and the three small creatures started to laugh. This is how he gained a new name, too bad he didn’t know yet that it was just the goblin word for "trash" and the three creatures thought he was just a metal golem.

After getting to his feet, he looked around and noticed a beautiful view of a beach, surrounded by palm trees and sand. He didn’t recognize the place, the goblins, the ship in the distance, or anything else. He then realized he didn’t even recognize himself... he couldn’t remember anything who he was, what he was, or where he was. Nothing. Luckily for him, the goblins weren’t a bunch of random thugs looking for scrap, but three very specific thugs from the Steelroad pirates, a pirate group infamous for their metal reinforced ship, armed with guns, gunpowder, and the inevitable explosions that would follow. Captain One Tooth was extremely curious about the funny robot man and was about to disassemble him to see how he ticked, not really caring that he was sentient. Luckily, Gunmasta' Treefor, a large half-orc, found the large lad more charming than anything and convinced the captain to keep him around for a bit.

For a while, he was just a normal cabin boy, cleaning the ship and the guns, until one fateful day when the artificer of the crew, Hervin Sabor, a half-elf who lost half his face in an explosion, decided to use him to test a new gun he had made. It was a simple blunderbuss, strapped with four smaller guns, all of which would shoot at the same time once the trigger was pulled. Not only was it incredibly dangerous, but the recoil alone would have turned a person’s arm to mush. But not Arken’s. He not only managed to shoot it without recoil, but also hit the target Hervin had set up before, with ease. He even survived the following boom, after the gun exploded in his face on the second shot. This made him both the primary tester of new guns and the second gunner of the crew, spending time with Treefor as his apprentice, learning how to fight, pillage, and live as a true pirate. During this time he learned to love guns and explosions, since, being an Automaton, only his hearing and sight where the most "normal", while the other senses where at best reduced. In general he likes flashy things that are loud.

Many “peaceful” years passed, and he slowly started to surpass his master in his ability to use guns, becoming an important and loved part of the crew. During this time, he tried to discover as much of the world as possible, bothering people in taverns, asking everything from what animals lived elsewhere to what empires and kingdoms existed. This usually got him kicked out, since he was VERY annoying sometimes while asking. One day, after boarding a slaver ship, he discovered another thing: helping people felt REALLY good. So, he freed the slaves, essentially gave the ship to them, and told them where the closest city was, all the while the rest of the crew were looting the ship. This started a discussion with One Tooth, since while he didn’t like the concept of slavery, selling the slaves somewhere “safer” would still bring in extra cash, and the ship itself was very valuable. This was resolved with Arken promising to repay the price of the slaves and the ship with his own loot (everyone on the crew could take personal loot after every raid). But this situation left him with some bitter feelings.

A less heated discussion followed with Treefor, who explained that what he did was good, but also very risky. Yes, they were slaves, but among them could have been criminals, killers, or worse. Yes, they needed the ship, but who knew if they could use it properly. And yes, he did a good thing, but the crew didn’t raid ships for fun, and the loot they grabbed from that ship wasn’t much. In a worse situation they might have had not enoug food to just survive with what they had. This taught him that the world was neither black nor white, but a complex mix of grey, and that things were far more complicated than just helping people or slaying evil, without considering the consequences.

This stumped him for a while, and he spent the next few years reflecting on it, until, one fateful day, they were attacked by a group of battleships from Bloodcove, who claimed they were "raiding too close to Bloodcove". After a small skirmish, the crew of the Steelroad pirates was captured and put behind bars in a dark, cramped compartment inside one of the larger battleships. After a few long weeks, the crew was sold as either slaves or gladiators near Bloodcove, with Arken being the only one sold as “decoration.” He was bought by a rich gnome merchant named Malcom, as a centerpiece for his expansive artifact collection in his mansion in Anthusis, in the Vidrian region. 

He was locked in a small cage for three years, unable to move much, only able to watch the rest of the room. If he spoke, he’d be zapped by the "security system" of the house, that reacted to the smallest word coming out of his "mouth". He watched all kinds of people: the rich admiring the artifacts with stupid grins on their faces, eating caviar, rare cheeses, and wine so expensive the average man could use the same amount of money to live for 100 years; the elite of Anthusis, governors, military leaders, and anyone with political power; and most importantly, the servants, likely slaves from the Shackles, constantly cleaning, on the verge of tears, with heavy shackles on their legs. This scene, repeated every day for years, almost broke his spirit, with the only thing keeping him sane being the possibility of gaining his freedom one day. Every time the room wasn’t full of pompous bastards, it was filled with miserable people, with not a single speck of hope in their lives.

The servants were also the reason he was freed. One day, one of them accidentally broke one of the ancient vases in the room, a decprated vase that constantly emitted a cool and constant chill. The servant’s shock and fear turned to horror when the vase released an ice elemental, which proceeded to turn the entire room into a snowglobe the instant it was freed. This froze the security system, killed most of the servants and broke the bars of Arken’s cage just as quickly, setting him free, if a bit frosty. For the first time in years, he was able to move. He laughed loudly, only to be smacked on the head by the elemental, crashing into the wall. That woke him up real good. He noticed that four servants had survived the ice explosion and rushed to grab them, jumping out of a window immediately after. Luckily, a hay cart below broke their fall.

Finally free, he heard Malcom screaming and had an idea. He ran back, used the artifacts in the room (which included some weapons) to kill the elemental, barely surviving. He grabbed the half-frozen Malcom and a bunch of valuable items, then jumped out the window again, running off with the surviving servants. After the servants beat the gnome senseless for a while, he gave each of them enough gold to survive for a while and started asking the half awake Malcom for information. He knew the slave trade very well and used his extensive connections to track down the surviving members of the crew, at least the ones still alive.

He spent five long years finding as many of them as possible, freeing them and as many slaves as he could from their various captors, leaving a trail of important corpses along the way, Malcom included, and gaining an hefty bounty on his head. This went on until only One Tooth and Treefor remained to be saved from an illegal underground arena deep in the Mwangi Jungle. Arken joined as a gladiator to gather information from the inside, soon making the harrowing discovery that only One Tooth was still alive, Treefor had died a couple of years ago while figthing. This maede his plan of “slowly gaining information” disappear, and the plan of “screw it, I’m too emotional for a plan” was about to begin. This likely would have been the end of his lifem since two guys (him and One Tooth) against an entire gladiator arena wasn’t the best idea. But then, one thing happened that changed the course of his life in more ways than one: the Pathfinders showed up.

The details are unclear even to Arken, but a group of Pathfinders had been observing the arena for a while, aiming to take it down and arrest the leaders of the rogue guild running it. After a huge minotaur barbarian broke through a wall, Arken spoke with the leader of the group, who was a human paladin of Mwangi heritage. After a quick discussion, it was decided they would help him free the slaves in exchange for him not killing any of the high-ranking leaders of the arena, since they needed them alive. 

After the battle ended, Arken, covered in blood and his own oil, was able to corner the leader of the arena. He left him alive, of course, but with holes in each of his appendages, and began searching his room for Treefor’s belongings, having learned that the arena leader had collected things from various gladiators he’d bought. This way, Arken found the last thing Treefor had left in this world, a gunblade shaped like a scimitar, with a multi-shot flintlock pistol attached.

Sadly, One Tooth was badly injured during the battle. While the Pathfinders’ cleric saved him, he would likely never be able to sail as a pirate again, and the Steelroad Pirates officially ended that day. Still, a new opportunity arose. While the Pathfinder Society didn’t interest him much, the idea of becoming an adventurer was appealing. He could finally do what he wanted, get the freedom he craved, explore the world, and make a ton of cash (the average Pathfinder party was incredibly wealthy without being merchants or nobles). Also, maybe, he’d discover who he was in his past life. He had learned about automatons during his travels but still wanted to know his true identity.

So, after reuniting with the rest of the freed crew, he hugged each one and gave them enough money to start a legitimate fishing business. Then, he set out to become an adventurer, first traveling to Duwwor. After doing some work there, he started following the Golden Road, freeing slaves, killing slavers, buying/stealing more equipment, and trying to discover new cultures and informations about the world at large.

Then, while walking around Osirion looking for bounties, strange things started happening...
